docs/00-project-management-plan/source/project_mgmt.rst, before:

Project Management
==================
The section describes the organizational structure of the Open Ventilator Project (OVP) project, 
the corresponding responsibilities and the flows of internal information.

Team Responsibilities
---------------------
The organizational structure is:


+-------------------+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Title             | Name               | Responsibilities                                      |
+===================+====================+=======================================================+
| Project Manager   | Joe Turner         | Manages the cost, quality and schedule of the project,|
|                   |                    | manages relationships with end users... TDB           |
+-------------------+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+


Work breakdown structure, tasks, planning
-----------------------------------------

Tasks of the project are described in the table below.

Task n
^^^^^^
TBD, sub-section for each major task with:
- inputs of the task
- content of the task
- output of the task
- task reviews 
Otherwise, the software development plan document may be referenced instead.

Resource identification
-----------------------
If specific resources are needed for the project, such asa calibrated measurement
tools, simulators, etc., they shall be identified, and referenced here.

Relationships with project stakeholders
---------------------------------------

Customer or end-user involvement
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Describe how the customer or end-user is involved in the software development: meetings, 
reviews, and presentations of intermediate versions 

Subcontractor Management
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Describe how subcontractors are managed: statement of work, reviews, validation, verification 

Relationships with other teams
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Describe relationships with other teams of your company, like the team in charge of 
the system design

Communication
-------------

Meetings
^^^^^^^^
Describe what kinds of meetings are organized during the project and what happens in 
these meeting. This may be described in your quality management system. In this 
case, this section is not necessary.

Reviews
^^^^^^^
Describe what kinds of reviews are organized during the project: launch review, 
design reviews, tests reviews and what happens in these reviews. This may be 
described in your quality management system. In this case, this section is 
not necessary

Training
^^^^^^^^
Describe training of people involved in the project, if necessary.

Commit message:

Add draft changes for project management plan
Add draft changes for project management plan.  The management
plan is based off of some medical device specifications.  It
presents an overview of the project and how it should be
managed.

docs/00-project-management-plan/source/project_mgmt.rst, after:

Project Management
==================
The section describes the organizational structure of the Open Ventilator Project (OVP) project, 
the corresponding responsibilities and the flows of internal information.

Team Responsibilities
---------------------
The current organizational structure is:


+-------------------+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| Title             | Name               | Responsibilities                                      |
+===================+====================+=======================================================+
| Project Manager   | Joe Turner         | Manages the cost, quality and schedule of the project,|
|                   |                    | manages relationships with end users.                 |
+-------------------+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------------+

Work breakdown structure, tasks, planning
-----------------------------------------

Major tasks of the project should be described here.

Resource identification
-----------------------
If specific resources are needed for the project, such asa calibrated measurement
tools, simulators, etc., they shall be identified, and referenced here.

Relationships with project stakeholders
---------------------------------------

Customer or end-user involvement
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Customer/end-user involvment will be limited until a viable product is developed.  In 
the last stages, end-users will be engaged to refine the product.

Subcontractor Management
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
In the early phases of this project, there will not be any subcontractor involvement.
In later phases, relationships will be established with contract manufacturing 
sites which will be managed with industry standard statements of work, reviews, 
assembly procedures, test procedures, etc.

Relationships with other teams
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Currently there are no other teams.  This will change if others start contributing to
the project.

Communication
-------------

Meetings
^^^^^^^^
Meetings may be held in person or online.  When possible, and if there are any decisions 
or discussions of importance to the project, meeting minutes should be recorded and 
saved and appended into either github or as a document in the git repository.

Reviews
^^^^^^^
- Code reviews will take place with every pull request.
- Hardware design reviews will take place during the hardware design phase.
- Test reviews will take place at the appropriate times.
