Introduction
============

What is a Ventilator
--------------------

A mechanical ventilator is designed to control pulmonary ventilation and respiration, intermittently or continuously.  A mechanical ventilator is often referred to as ventilator, respirator, or breathing machine.

Ventilators are used:

- to deliver higher concentrations of oxygen to the lungs and to assist in the removal of carbon dioxide (CO2);
- to decrease the amount of energy a patient uses on breathing;
- to breathe for a person who is not breathing because of injury or muscle weakness, or who is unconscious because of severe infection. 


Parts of a Ventilation System
------------------------------

Air Source
^^^^^^^^^^

Most designs of mechanical ventilators draw air to be sent to the patient from one of two sources: 

*Pneumatic (compressed air)*.  Compressed air (medical air) is supplied to the ventilator which uses solenoid valves to control the volume and pressure supplied to the patient.  Pressure is usually maintained around 50 p.s.i.

*Internally powered turbine/blower*.  More modern designs utilize a blower or turbine to draw in air and compress it to supply the required pressure and volume.  Generally, a turbine must be able to quickly change volume and pressure generated (variable RPM) and must also contain a brake to slow or stop the blower in circumstances where continued delivery of pressure would result in possible lung trauma (i.e., patient makes an unexpected spontaneous exhalation while under high PEEP and higher pressure). 

Oxygen Sources
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Gas cylinders*.  During transport or at home use, oxygen cylinders are used to supply oxygen.  Ambulances usually carry large gas cylinders.  These cylinders supply high pressure O2.

*Hospital oxygen*. Hospitals normally have gas piping into patient rooms.  Oxygen is usually stored in liquid oxygen form under pressure in a bulk tank.  

*Oxygen concentrators*.  Oxygen concentrators currently don’t provide enough volume to effectively supply a ventilator.  However, it is probably feasible to supply supplemental oxygen to a ventilator in an emergency situation, but it would be nearly impossible to titrate the exact oxygen mix to introduce to the patient circuit.

Power Sources
^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Most modern ventilators run off of different power sources:

*Alternating Current (AC) Voltage*.  The standard voltage and frequency of alternating current (AC) used in hospitals and clinics varies from country to country throughout the world.  In the United States, the 120V, 60Hz.  Europe is 230V, 50Hz.

*Direct Current (DC) Voltage*. 12V or 24V direct current (DC).

*Battery Power*.  Virtually all ventilators contain batteries to facilitate transport and as a back-up in the event of a power failure.

Pressure Sensors
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Ambient/Barometric air pressure sensor.  The ventilator needs to measure ambient air pressure, in order to adjust calculations.

*Oxygen pressure*.  The ventilator should measure oxygen pressure.

*Internal pressure*. The ventilator should have an internal pressure sensor.
 
*Proximal pressure*. The ventilator should have a proximal pressure sensor.

Gas Flow Measurement
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Measuring gas flow is critical.  Volume is not measured, only extrapolated from pressure and flow.  Changes in gas flow and pressure are used to interpret the phases of breathing (inspiration, expiration) and respond based on the ventilation mode.

*Inspiratory flow*.  Gas flow during inhalation.

*Exhalation flow*. Gas flow during exhalation.

Temperature Sensors
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

*Battery temperature*.  Monitoring battery temperature during charge and discharge cycles is necessary.

*Turbine/Blower temperature*.  It is necessary to monitor turbine/blower temperature during normal operation.

*Flow temperature*.  This is the ambient temperature of the air in the circuit, used for calculations and safety.


Alarm System
^^^^^^^^^^^^
One of the most important parts of the ventilator is the alarm system to alert medical providers of various problems requiring immediate attention, such as leaks, no longer detected breath, or other alarms generated by monitoring changes in aspiratory flow and pressures.  Different alarm sounds can be generated via PWM cycles. 

Human Machine Interface
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The usability of modern ventilators differs considerably.

The end user must have an interface with a turn On/Off function, the ability to configure, monitor parameters and modes.  This should be a combination of buttons and an LCD display.  The display shall provide all pertinent values, trend graphs, etc., to the clinician as required.


Air and Oxygen Blender
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The air and oxygen blender provides a precise oxygen concentration by mixing air and oxygen.  The
concentration shall be adjustable to any value from ambient air to 100 percent oxygen.